okay yeah so my name is Duke I work on
bit swap at ipfs and today I'm going to
be talking about some of the changes
that have come with the new bit swap
it's about one-point-two so basically
the headline items that you should get a
lot less duplicate blocks coming over
your network and the reason for that is
we can now instead of just asking for a
block we can ask who has the block so we
can be a little bit more specific in how
we direct our requests and secondly you
should expect files to get transferred
faster that's partly because we have a
little bit less aggressive rate limiting
and it's also because when we find out
if someone doesn't have a block then we
can go and ask everyone else hey do you
have this block instead so just to dive
a little more into how this all works so
this is going to describe the old it
swap and then I'll I'll talk about the
new updates so in the old bit swap the
way the discovery works was when ipfs
asked bit swap for a file the first
block that I asked for is called the
root block of the dag and so bit swap
words send out a request to all of the
peers that it's connected to and say hey
give me the root block and then if none
of them have the root block then it
would go out and ask the DHT so once
some peers respond and say yes I have
that block it's what puts them into
what's called a session and the session
is just a way of grouping together some
peers who are likely to have all of the
blocks in a particular file so any
subsequent requests go to those peers so
once we have some peers in our session
and for subsequent requests we send out
one message to peers sort of selectively
and I'll talk you in a minute how we do
that and the peers remember okay this
guy wants these blocks so if I come
across those blocks or if I have them in
my data store I'm going to send them
through so in the old bit swap way we
would decide which wants to send to
which P is is we would kind of split up
the wants into groups and we would send
a whole group to several peers
and so of course if several peers have
that particular block they would all
send it back and we have a lot of
duplicates so we would kind of like
adjust the the number of once in each
group to try to maintain a balance
between getting too many duplicates
versus getting a decent transfer ratio
so in the new bid swap we've added some
protocol extensions that instead of
asking for a block directly we can ask
does this beer have the block and so
typically what we'll do is when we get a
request from
ipfs we'll send what we call a 1/2 or ps
saying hey do you have this block and
optimistically we'll ask one of the
peers for the block and then if that
peer doesn't have it then we'll go out
and we'll ask one of the peers who does
have it so how do we choose which peer
to send that optimistic one block to so
by the way the optimistic one block is
to try to reduce round-trip times as
much as possible if we can we'll just
ask for it directly so basically in
order to choose which appear to send
that one block to we prioritize peers
that have told us they have the block
and if there are no peers or if they all
tell us that they have it then we select
the peer probabilistically according to
whichever peer has sent us the most
blocks in the past for this session so
that sort of optimizes for peers who
have the lowest latency in the highest
bandwidth
three minutes so I sort of race very
quickly but just to talk about some
results so Steven showed some of these
slides earlier on basically you can see
on the left hand side we have the time
to fetch on the y-axis this is the file
size on the x-axis and that each line is
asking it's when one bit swap here is
asking either one seed two seeds or four
seeds for a file so the blue lines are
the old bit swap and you can see that
they're much higher than the red lines
which are the new bit swap meaning that
the new bit swap is able to retrieve
blocks faster on the right hand sides we
have some graphs of duplicate blocks and
I Steven mentioned earlier the old bit
swap used to get quite a lot of
duplicate blocks but there are actually
no red lines on the graph because
there's essentially no duplicate blocks
in most scenarios so say that was a
super quick round up but in summary you
can expect to the new bit swap to get
better transfer speeds and a lot less
duplicate blocks coming across your
network thank you